---
layout: post
title:      "Understanding foundations by building from the ground up."
date:       2020-05-27 03:14:41 +0000
permalink:  understanding_foundations_by_building_from_the_ground_up
---


I'll be honest, I don't think I really had a great grasp on Sinatra routing, MVC, or forms all the way until working on my Sinatra portfolio project. Maybe it was the coronavirus-related turmoil enveloping everything, maybe it was trying to keep up with work, school, and a busy job hunt, maybe it was a turbid combination of all multipl factors, but nothing really clicked into place for me until I sat down and had to build it all out myself front to back. And that brought me to a realization, that's relative to how I've always learned best.

Everyone has a different learning style, I think it comes down to how your brain is wired. Some people are visual, some are hands on, some really need the whole picture, some like to break everything down into pieces. Myself personally, I like to be able to see the big connected picture, learn the individual pieces, and then get down to building them all together to recreate said picture. I've never learned well without having the grander scope of what I'm learning, it's been that way for as long as I can remember. Funny thing about habits though, sometimes you get so used to them you forget you even have them, which brings me to a near mental breakdown towards the end of this Sinatra section.

As I mentioned, during this section my life was a bit all over the place. My current job was fading away fast due to a rapidly dwindling market and massive cutbacks across the board in my industry. The coronavirus outbreak changed nearly all aspects of social life as we know it, which affected me greatly as someone who feeds off of social contact. I spent every bit of my free time either studying or working on my job hunt. There was a lot going on, and admittedly I let stress get to me more than I'd like. As I progressed through the sections in the Sinatra module, I kept feeling like I just wasn't really getting it, like I simply couldn't follow how it all really worked together and what made various aspects function. Not being able to understand the big picture yet, I was struggling to understand all the puzzle pieces that would make it up. Towards the end of the module when going over the ActiveRecord section, I found myself in tears one night after a long day thinking that I just wasn't smart enough to understand this. I let stress and negativity take over briefly, and lost all self confidence in my ability to learn this content, there was a short period where I really thought I might just not have what it takes to learn this kind of stuff. Of course, I was forgetting that I needed to power through, collect all of the pieces of the puzzle, to be able to understand enough to build the big picture. 

I drudgingly pushed myself through the remainder of the module with little confidence that I'd be able to move forward, until I got to the final project. I took a short break for a couple days to clear my head, then dug in and started looking at example projects and other students projects. I watched Avi's live project build where he started from scratch. I started up a repository, set up a basic skeleton with the Corneal gem, and stared at my monitor. I looked at the folder and file structure, and was able to put together what needed to be built. I know I need Models for my classes, and I know how to build those and tie in their relationship since it's fairly simple, so I started there. I know I need Controllers for my application and each of my models, so started on those next. As I started on the basics of my controllers, I realized that I'd actually retained more information than I had thought. I had already actually learned the individual pieces of the puzzle I was putting together, I just didn't quite realize or understand it since I didn't understand the picture I was trying to build. Since controller routing is fairly standardized in form/function, this proved to not actually be too bad either. SQL and databases all made sense to me, and Sinatra made it quite simple, so I found creating and migrating a database to be a breeze. Views, admittedly, still took me some time since my HTML knowlege is not the greatest, but with assistance from google and former projects I was able to get a decent looking application up and functioning properly in only two days time. All of the misery and negativity was for naught, I had simply lost my vision of aiming for the bigger picture.

I guess the point of this is really as a reminder to myself to continue learning the smaller pieces remembering that even if they don't make sense right off the bat, they'll come together congruently with time and more learning. Some of the best advice I heard before this program was to push through the curriculum, even if you feel like you might not understand a piece of it, and see if it all makes sense down the line when you bring everything together. So far that's proved true, now I just need to remember to remember the advice during the next module! I hope if anyone else feels or has felt the same way that I did that you can find the strength to push through until you can reach that level of greater understanding; it's not easy, it's not always enjoyable, and it can be downright stressful, but the elation of it all finally coming together is truly unmatched.
